I remember these days good to see you
guys
hey Coby for somebody that's been
obsessed with the Great's of the game
since you were a kid you're about to
watch your jerseys go up into the
rafters can you just put into words what
legacy means to you well you know it's
hard to put in the words I think it's
you know growing up and watching all
these great players play and learning so
much from to now be a part of that of
that wall you know means everything to
me and I think legacy is really
important in the sense of you know what
we've done is is awesome but I think
what's more important for a legacy is
how that affects the next generation to
come and you know the jerseys that are
hanging in the rafters now the impact
that they've had on me which led to us
being in this moment here now I think
that's the true mark of a legacy is how
well impacts the next generation joey el
mensaje que las - a las cámaras Sione's
de jugadores por venir - mensaje para
que su answer como tu tienes que quieren
sueño christmas grande tienes que
trabajar cada dia para SE sueño mas
importante es tu vas a ser personas que
que no crane and tus when you tell old
en cada dia que no por no no no es
posible que tu lo que hacer realidad
- lo tienes que su charles a who's our
lo para para motive a motive motivation
bill quick a Kobe over here it's so
driving in today I'm sure you saw the
crowd of people outside all these people
and you're not even playing the night I
mean you been retired the the effect you
have on this city does that are you ever
in all of that or is that something that
you can feel you know I it's it's weird
man it's you know cuz growing up you
just want to play basketball you mean
and then
when to win championships I wanted to be
regarded as one of the greats and all
the stuff that was very very internally
driven individually driven and as you
get older and as I sit here now I come
to realize that it's really not about
those things those things carry a
greater significance to them and it's
how well can you affect or impact others
not from the sense of fandom or whatever
the case may be but it's through your
actions through your behavior through
your commitment to the game how can that
inspire people to be as committed in
whatever field that they're choosing to
be a part of and that's where I think
the connection that we have and we fed
off of that energy I've cut off their
energy from it for many many years and
and I think that's the best of reaction
you're saying Ted so the right I go over
here good to see you again I remember
the first day you walked into the forum
and I'm thinking that little kid right
now is still inside of you somewhere can
you go back there and think about even
imagining that this has happened and
just the emotions of dealing with all
these accolades and at the same time
have you had a chance to look outside
yet and see what's going on in Colby
Lane I haven't had a chance to look
outside and see I mean I saw it driving
and what it's kind of like and then
secondly I can remember back to being
being a kid because that that child
inside of me is never left and all the
years I've been playing here that child
inside of me has never left I mean one
of the first things I did when I walked
into the forum when her lights were down
it was dimly lit and I looked up and
looked at all the jerseys that were up
there cuz I'd seen him many times on
videotapes before and before every game
I made a point to kind of glance up
there and remind me of what I'm playing
for you know how I got here and what it
is that we're representing appreciate
all of this as you evolved as a person
well the appreciation comes in moments
it comes in increments you know like you
go through a moment in time and you
realize that you're going way too fast
you know I really get a chance to
appreciate everything that's happening
so you take a beat and you appreciate it
but the reality is you can't stay there
you know I mean because then you can't
ever grow and evolve right so you
there's moments of appreciation and then
you eventually you have to move on and
focus with your head down on what comes
next and then come up for air every now
and then second round the center ob Chao
throw for a totally Maggio needle at
work career at raft Italy Christa
Camilla classification type in Sato
wisdom at veena
pencil molto perk a volleyball team an
earring in encuesta memento come to a
lasso communist enemy sent to impart a
path Magento or Gullo so the koala to
toka fat cafetalk we go Lakers they're
all dentro de mad Apache Marc Medina way
Thompson doing stuff with body armor and
Kevin Durant and so with Nike what kind
of business perspectives have you
offered any of those guys well I mean
it's just to be a part of brands that
you believe in as you believe share the
same core values as you and then
everything else tends to fall in place
you gotta find a connection with brands
and what they represent and what you
represent what you want to stand for and
then then everything else takes care of
itself
well I thought it's pretty obvious why
there's not a Gatorade bottle here right
now they had their time right there Marc
um
Kobe we watched you ups in the middle I
can never get this right I asked like
you know what I'm gonna figure it out
finally - okay go ahead we might give
you a pass tada we watched you obsess
over basketball your whole life twenty
years I think some people wondered what
would his life be like without
basketball in it every day so tell us
how you're coping you know what it's a I
had a lot of players and former players
coming to me - last year like genuinely
concerned right are you going to be okay
huh yeah I'm gonna be alright as is
listen
you gonna it's gonna you're gonna it's
gonna be progressive right the first
week it's gonna be serious state of
depression second week you're gonna be
angry third week you're gonna start
coming around you're gonna have a level
of acceptance I'm like no I'm seriously
I'm good like I'm good I'm good I'm good
I'm good and I think the most important
thing is finding what it is that you
love to do that's the hardest part
and it took work like basketball was
born to play but the second phase what
we're doing took a lot of work a lot of
soul-searching a lot of investigating
and trying things out but when you find
what it is that you love to do do you
wake up every morning with a sense of
purpose you know so my life is it's been
great and I fell into a great routine
you know I work out five o'clock every
morning take the kids to school get some
breakfast with my wife go through the
office work there pick the kids up and
then from there it's just you know
volleyball here basketball here soccer
there you know what I mean and that's my
routine Coby what uh what uh what
process did you go through and writing
your speech and then I assumed you might
have talked to some people or what
speech half time I didn't write a speech
so I'll off the top of your head and
write a speech and also as far as how
often do you come out back you think
about the hell I'm gonna see my repeat
that I live you didn't hear a damn thing
you just said right now completely
thinking about what I was going to say
go ahead how did you work on your speech
for half time what did you do I'm doing
everything I was doing it while you were
asking the question after okay I don't
know I don't know I guess you just kind
of you sit in the moment and then you
let whatever's inside of me at that
moment just come just come forward and
you know I think preparing for stuff
like this kind of it's not really true
to form you know you just kind of got to
sit in the moment absorb it and then
whatever comes out comes out hey goby
last time you were here you had just
scored six to your final game after
playing 20 years tonight you're
strolling in with literally a stroller
so what's going through your mind the
first thing you're thinking about is
you're walking through again
I hope all these cameras that are
flashing do not wake up Bianca this
kid's got a lot of energy man it's gone
I'm trying to my biggest concern of the
night is is she gonna be able to sit
there for the duration of the game where
she gonna try to run out onto the court
because she does not like sitting down
for too long so that is my biggest
challenge of the evening but I feel
great and I'm very proud to come here
with my family I'm proud that Bianca
gets a chance to be in this environment
although she won't really remember
anything of it it's uh feels good as a
father to be able to have my family come
in and and share this night with so
cobia conan mmm polka palabras quality
legado the kobe bryant who adore KTM
sueño Arabic idea a few amenities when
you realize oh I see Kobe you came into
the league the same time roughly that
Iverson came in but you came it came at
basketball from very different places
but the impact was similar and I wonder
if you've thought about the impact that
you and he had in that kind of post
Jordan free LeBron era where the game
was really kind of floundering and
needed somebody to kind of show the way
well I remember we came in we were the
the draft that was you know full of a
bunch of misfits this is everything that
is wrong with the game you know I mean
one Ireson no you just know he does not
fit the mold he's not marketable this
whole thing and then you got a kid that
you need to Burt before every practice
because he's so young you know so we
were kind of the misfits of it all but
inside of us you know we just had a
passion to play all of us mean ray - I
mean we all just had a passion Steve you
know passion for the game and you know
that superseded everything and so
eventually things balanced out and you
know the fans begin to see us for who we
were and what we came to be but yeah and
I had definitely a significant impact on
culture
and it was fun competing against him
Kobe you've obviously wanted to be the
best player what do you think about now
when you hear the comparisons Kobe
Michael Kobe LeBron things like that I
don't I don't you know one thing about
me is I'm only going to care about
something that I know I can definitively
win it's not something I can
definitively win I'm not gonna pay
attention to it you know so if there's
an argument that's happening that
argument is never gonna go anywhere
everybody's gonna argue it too they're
blue in the face so why would I think
about it you know if we're playing
ping-pong and I know I can beat you in
ping-pong I'm going to beat you in pink
ball I'm gonna think about that that's a
definitive thing so I don't I don't
think about that much hey Kobe everyone
is talking about who was a better copy
number eight or nine or 24 I really want
your answer thank you well it depends it
depends if aids playing at 24 after you
just ruptured his Achilles and it's a
problem for 24 you know I mean if 24 is
playing is a 20 you know Tori shoulder
and it's a problem for number eight so
it just depends
Kelly Hoey las preguntas la primera como
esta vida despues de Valence esto la
segunda como estas de viento esta noche
para is muy Linda porque esto con
Familia cada dia escuela
me Rondo como wagon sports dispersed
escuela escuela cenar commies pasa todas
las cosas que antes que me retiro nobody
nobody hacer esta noche
so I pass I pass okay so okay
estoy aqui con familia yeah tengo que
hablar ah vosotros pro SOS una cosa que
put on a no chela puedo hacer no no some
way Feliz muy Feliz
Kobe Anthony Gilbert who magazine
nba.com my question for you is when you
talked about looking up at the numbers
the retired jerseys so well Chamberlain
and you're from Philadelphia even though
you pretty much grew up most of your
life out here what does a night like
tonight to be the only player to have
two jerseys retired what does that mean
to your hometown and to your family well
I mean that's you know the attitude that
I play with you know the the temperament
the competitiveness the trash talk and
all comes from there I mean that's
that's that summer spending long days at
Tustin and playing across from overbook
will Chamberlain did his thing you know
I mean so it all comes from there so I'm
really happy to be representing that at
that level and to have to Philly boys
with their jerseys hanging up there is
pretty awesome for y'all I should be
getting free water ice every time I come
down there by the way were you know not
just the US but the world is watching
and we know he just announced plans for
the first MBA school in China what kind
of legacy wanna leave in China and also
across the world and also I'm curious do
you still sometimes wake up at 4 o'clock
in the morning well I wake up at 4 every
morning it's just it's just I don't know
it's I don't know I just wake up at 4
and I got nothing to do so miles would
work out and I was alright and I will do
things that I need to do so and in terms
of going forward it's about educating
it's about teaching it's about about
teaching the game is about teaching the
game within the game a lot of that is is
emotionally driven you can teach
fundamentals you can teach footwork you
can teach basics but we also have to
teach that goes hand in hand with that
is how to deal with anxiety how to deal
with pressure how to how to understand
how to quiet the ego all those little
inner battles that take place we have to
be able to teach that as well through
sport and then through sport
hopefully we can have children grow up
to be outstanding citizens Andy coming
you talked a little bit earlier about
some of the younger players over the
course of 20 years you kind of
conditioned the city not just about
success but also a very in a very
specific way how it's supposed to be
done
what challenge do you think following
you creates for you know whoever it
might be coming next to kind of fill
that role well I mean I mean it's a
challenge but you know isn't that where
we're here for you know I mean it's it's
it's I don't think it's something that
needs to be viewed from a broad lens I
think you miss your job to do that I
think it's the fans job to do that but
for players you know for for for cooze
for Lonzo for Ingram for the guys they
just look at it day by day
that's all you know how do I get better
today how can I do better today than I
did yesterday you look at it in
incremental steps and then when you do
that you wound up forging your own
legacy that you'll look back years from
now and everybody will marvel and wonder
at it but it's your job to look at the
macro vision of it I miss the players
job so we get the micro steps to get
there two more questions bill over here
hey I don't even answer this before you
got to get the answer a tort we had to
retire one number eight or 24 if they do
a statue of you out there eight or 24 if
your statue you don't necessarily have
to see the number anyway
you know yeah if you do hair I guess
it's a dead giveaway but you know I kind
of go back and forth but you know eight
has something that 24 will never ever
ever ever ever have and that's the
ability to grow here so I it is honestly
it is it's tough ya know I'm with you
I'm with you I didn't understand your
plight years ago but now I certainly get
it is it's really really tough for me I
think 24 was more challenging and you
know I tend to gravitate to things that
are harder to do and physically for me
it was really really hard to get up
night in the night out man it was really
really it's a grind
you know taking on the Boston Celtics
you know having a bone fragment and my
foot during that series having a broken
finger and muscling through that back
half of the career some of the toughest
stretches a basketball every man it's
I guess if you force me to pick when I
probably go with 24 because of that last
question Center Kobe you I you obviously
there's this huge celebration for you
today you spent two decades here you
know this it's kind of a celebration
your whole career what you kind of
talked about before what will it take
for this franchise do you think to kind
of officially move on to the next
chapter
after Kobe well the thing about sports
is that the chapters are coming whether
you like them or not right the stories
are being written now all right new
legacies are being created now and I
think for the players that are here now
like I said early it's just to focus on
the micro stuff the day-to-day stuff
that's it man that's it you just work on
your game right the little details of it
and how do you get better studying film
and then as time goes on you'll look
back at this beautiful thing that
they've created right but in the moment
you're being it's creating you don't you
don't know you know if you guys 15 years
ago said Kobe Bryant I'd be sitting here
giving advice to younger players in the
NBA yes I get the you kidding me
this guy no way right and so you never
know you never know you just go day by
day you appreciating each day as it
comes and that's what these players are
do and years from now the fans will look
up and say man you built the dynasty
again so alright thank you everybody
thank you appreciate it